I'm Brandon Johnson, I'm sitting in for Jeff Davis, who we love so much, do we not?
Spencer Crittenden is not with us tonight, we love him so much, do we not?
Well, let's just get started, we love you downtown, Dynasty Theater, welcome to the
stage.
This is Dr. Dan Holman and Rob Schrupp.
Rob Schrupp, everybody.
Whoa, look at that comfortable chair, boy.
Oh, you just get everything you want, don't you?
Nice, comfortable chair.
It's very nice.
For those of you who tune in for the serialized aspect of our show, Schrab complains about stuff,
and then the next episode, people have indulged him.
He mentioned the chairs were uncomfortable, now he's in a big Lily Tomlin overstuffed
prop sofa, I hope you get lumbar problems tonight, I hope that's too much comfort for
this podcast.
More lumbar, more lumbar problems.
You guys want to go to lumbar later and silver went like, it's never been better if it came
out clean.
Okay.
What?
Nothing.
It's a hipster bar, it's all about lower back support and infusion drinks, lumbar.
All right, there's only one, I feel like there's a voice in my head that says, Harmon,
you're going to fuck this up, but I keep every week that goes by and I don't bring
this up, another week goes by where it's like footprints in the snow, I had this experience
at a bar in Burbank and I wrote down the kind of flowchart through it, I was there with
a friend who kind of like, I digested it with him afterwards, so I got it all down accurately
and I wanted to just relay this like fan encounter I had, I'm not sure now, and then
the only reason I want to do it is because I just found it incredibly fascinating and
it probably goes without saying, but I'll say it anyway, that I have no problem how
you approach me, like I mean it would be weird to punch me, a lot of people make jokes and
like, you know, if it's helpful to you to understand, like, you know, I could tell you
that there's things that are like, oh, how am I supposed to react to that, you know,
but I also, you get one thing, I kind of want to run through all of the things I cringe
about when I think about, like, so many times I've been near anybody and I just, you had
that urge to like, you know, like, hey, what am I going to be in the same billiard hall
as this person and I'm not going to bother to, like that, I'm going to tell J.K.
Rollins, what's up? Yeah, I'm going to tell you, like, that's J.K.
Rollins and I'll even be the first to say, like, maybe you haven't even read Harry Potter
and that happens and you're kind of like, there's a little blurry line, but I will
say the people that usually come up to me because I'm not like, you know, if you recognize
my face in a bar, probably means that you're kind of deep in and it's usually a very pleasant
experience and sometimes it's a little socially awkward. I think I could name two times, including
now this last time, this is two in like 10 years, where I've been like, well, that guy
is kind of evil and a dick, but both times, I don't think the person didn't really know
me that. And I've done that too. I remember in Milwaukee, we were famous for, one of our
exports was a band called the Bodines. What was their big famous song?
Oh, I'm looking for a runaway. Or is it going to take my heart away for me? I'm going to
get the runaway. I'm a Bodine. Yeah. And I was at my, the drawing room of Milwaukee,
which was called the Uptowner and a very fancy place. And it wasn't, there was a guy drinking
at the end of the bar and a friend of mine said, that's so and so from the Bodines. And
they gave me a name and I went up to them. My mom loved that song. I'm looking for a
hideaway, going to get a runaway. And I lived in Milwaukee. I was 19 years old. I shouldn't
have been at a bar, but and I was like, I went up and I said, like Jimmy or Jody or
Gigi or whatever the name was, my mom's a big fan of your band. Could I get an autograph
and he signed some shit that I looked at later. And it was basically like, Oh, fuck yourself
or something like, like, like not, not, not like aggressive, but it was sort of like whatever
I had said to him, it was, you know, it was kind of clear that he was like, here's what
you get for not knowing who I am, what my song is and telling me your mom likes me,
like here's your fucking, you know, worthless thing for sure. You're not walking out of
here with anything worth anything. Yeah. And I remember that still because I'm embarrassed
that I did that. But like, do I I mean, therefore I guess I should say not but I I don't I don't
judge anybody whoever like kind of maybe has like a moment where they're like, Oh my God,
like it's you. It's like such a flattering thing, obviously. And and if they then like
have spit come out of their mouth or they or they or they do the mental equivalent, which
is like they try to nag me, you know, like there's some people that do that. They're
like, people think sometimes if they're rude to celebrities, it'll be cool. I mean, so
I feel like I hopefully have just claimed that enough to say like, this is not me going
like I met the biggest douchebag and here's blow by blow, everything he did wrong. But
it I mean, it is that but it's like it's not that is not. It's just to I still I if this
guy was listening, I would want him to know and I at the point of the stories, there's
no way this guy's listening. But the I would also want to know you did nothing wrong. You
don't have to you could erase this from your head. It is not on your karma. There's so
you were at a bar and somebody came up to you and started talking to you. I'm just trying
to find. So that was the setup. Okay, I'm trying to figure out what to type so I can
find it. I'm never going to find it. Are you? Are you? No, Schrab, do you have any advice
for people who come up to celebrities? Do I have any advice? No, no, not really. I mean,
I think we just told the we told the company story last time, right? Yeah, we told that
sorry. I mean, I think we were we were having we were having a pretty good time. That was
a pretty historical night for me at least. Yeah, I met red buttons Tony. Oh, no, you
thought you're thinking of Hasselhoff. That's the Hasselhoff story. We've also told that
a couple times. Yeah. What's the finish to this story? The company story. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
We told that here. Yeah, we told it here. Yeah. Okay. What about the finish to this
story? Okay, all right, all right, all right. Okay, you're not getting out of this. You're
not getting out of this one. All right, so I'm going from memory because it was like
in my mind it's like a it's like a flow chart where every time this guy has a chance to like
go left but he drills down. Okay, so I'm sitting at this billiard hall in Burbank where I write
most of Rick and Morty and I like there's this it's a sometimes inexplicably in Burbank
there's this like, I don't know if it's like billiard leagues or something like the place
is packed. And I'm like typing and then as a guy comes up and I see him peripherally
and he's kind of like he's he's he's bobbin and weaving and he's like captivated. And
then he he walks away for a second and he comes back and he goes, excuse me, has anybody
ever told you you look exactly like Justin Roiland? And I think I think I've gotten that
one before like like as a as a bit now now now zoom in on my flow chart where you go.
Okay, like this could be this could be a great guy, right? That could be a funny bit, right?
Of course. Um, it actually didn't even occur to me that it did not occur to me. I assumed
automatically. I was like, I was like, okay, what he means is a big fan of your your who
you are. And not that I would mind if he doomed to not recognize me and confuse me with someone
else. That would be fine too. But it didn't occur to me. I just assume I processed it like
he's doing a bit. He doesn't he doesn't want to he doesn't want to be regular, right? He wants
to do it. He wants to be he wants to be fun. And and I could just laugh it down. I can go, ha, ha, ha.
And and I go, yeah, I get that a lot. So that's me. Yes, Andy. Him. I get that a lot.
And then and then and then he goes, whoa, whoa, uh, wait, God damn it. See, the thing is I needed
my fucking notes because it's like he did so many things wrong, so many things. And they were all
like one after another for the first one. But I can't I skip if I could skip to easily because
he just I mean, I should I should bail on the whole thing. Can we can we just try one more time?
All right. Well, that's just because he's a great part. Let me let me think about it. Just like,
don't don't drop. Give us advice. Help me with my phobia of uncomfortable pauses. We got you
shop. Let me advice and take off your shirt.
Cold. Okay, okay. Yes, he's a genius. Trab is a genius. That's good. That's good. Okay, so he said
you just arrived and I said, yeah, I get that a lot, which had just occurred to me. And I remember
like, well, yes, that's yes, ending the joke. But it's also if it's technically in a technical
narrative, it's saying, I'm not who you think I am. Yes. So he reacted as if that were the case and
and just went like, okay, and walked away. But he like did like a two foot lap like around like an
invisible sunflower that he was pollinating. That was just like his own self loathing or something
or like the ghost of his dad, I don't know. And then like, and then he came back and he like,
he was like, no, no, it is you. It's you. I do I'd know you anywhere. And I was like, yeah,
yeah, yeah, hey, how are you doing? And he's like, dude, Justin, what are you doing here?
Oh, shit. And I was like, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I work here. I work or work
around the back and and he and he goes, he goes, he goes, well, I don't know that.
I'm not some sycophantic fucking ass kiss fan. I don't like worship your fucking life and know
every goddamn detail of it. And I was like, that's cool. You don't have to.
Did you, but it is Los Angeles. And what am I, what am I doing here?
I thought you would, I thought you would shake him down in Justin's voice.
Anyways, but, but, but, but why didn't you just say, I'm not Justin, you're wrong about that
shit too, bitch. No, no, that's not fair. You don't, you don't have to say no, big, you're
putting I am not because, because I also, I didn't, but he shit on you. Once he shit on you,
can't you be like, motherfucker, you don't even know who you talking to. No, because, well,
wait a minute. I'm going to be right about this. You're going to see because, because yeah, he
shit on me. I'm thinking what I'm thinking at this point is he, he's, he's going to be embarrassed
at some point and I could keep him from embarrassment. You know, it's like, like a parsley in your
teeth, but it's like, if someone with parsley in their teeth was like biting you, like he's,
he's, he's already being a bad person. So I was like, well, good, I can't wait for you to get the
selfie, tag it and feel like a terrible piece of shit. Just enough. Like it's fine. And then every,
all justice is done. And, and then, and so he, there were some other things he, god damn it,
I swear they were like 90 fucking things. And I was like, really that decision, that choice,
that's amazing. Like, like, like you, like the flow chart just has these clear, like the, you
know, like the thing goes, this is like two of them, you know, one that like,
you actually kept it going after he was being aggressive. I didn't keep shit going. I'm a
dude sitting at a bar. Did you shut it down? Did you shut something down? You, that, that's you
being like, I kind of respect that you were like in for the bit so you could fuck him up with this
selfie. That is some game master type shit. I will always yes, and you I'm never going to be like,
excuse me, I'm eating. Like, like, if I, that means like my mom died or like you have a hockey
mask on, I don't know. Like, like, I'm never going to be like, I don't consider that fair to like
turn me into the, you know, like to put that on me that I have to become the person that, that,
that radiates negativity because you decided to pee in the pool. You know, like, I'm just like,
best I could do is be like, I'm swimming in pee now. So I love it. So after he was like going,
I'm not some kind of sick fan. You went, you just went, okay. I was like, yeah, that's fine.
Yeah, that's what you would do to it. You know, and you and I are not good people. We're passive
aggressive. We're from Wisconsin. You know, I've seen you interact with a million terrible people,
and you always do the exact same thing. The shittier they get, the more you're like, okay, yeah,
all right. Yeah. And then you'll throw in something like, like, if they're giving you a note on your
comic book, you'll go like, okay, yeah, well, I'm probably going to keep doing whatever the fuck
I wanted to do. But it was nice talking to you, you know, like that's, but I don't have anything
to say in this situation because he's not telling me how to do the voices better. Okay. So, so keep
doing whatever the fuck you want to do. What? Oh, I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it.
I get it. Game record math game.
All right. What is that? What is that? Is that a candle? It's a hot signature.
That's a hot signature. All right. Let me just let me just like teleport to the end and we'll bring
our guests out. It's a hot signature. I got the thing that blew my mind is he goes like, hey,
let me get it. Like, can I get a selfie with you? And I was like, yeah, no problem. And I took the
selfie with it. Then it's not a selfie. I guess it is. I'm sorry. I'm trying. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I shouldn't be doing it. And then and then he and then he walked away and my Mike, Mike Waldron
and I were sitting there, we're working on Rick and Morty and I was like, and we he was marveling
at the whole thing and we were comparing notes and it was like, he was like, well, how often and
it was like not not like that. No. And he's like, so he's gonna he's gonna go post it, tag it. And
if I know, if I know our fan base, like he's gonna know in five seconds that he should kill
himself and die by fire and all this stuff. What happened? But the crazy thing is that the guy,
the guy absolutely like it was a selfie on the way out, like he was there for stuff. And then he
was like, one last thing. Can I get a picture? That was the thing like he waited until the end
because why wouldn't you and then he and then he and then he and so then he left and it was like,
we really thought I was like, I was like, and so that the epilogue of that story will be forever
unseen. And and then and then and then but then five minutes later, he came back and he was like,
dude, Dan, I just wanted to congratulate you on out trolling me on that joke I was doing,
where I pretended to think you were Justin and you fucking just stuck it out. And I didn't
think you'd do that. But that was, you know, congratulations. That was amazing, you know,
but whatever. I knew who you were the whole time. Yeah, well, guess what? Amateur hour.
Fucking with a real comedian and you're walking up with your whack ass basement bargain joke.
It was cute until you got aggressive. But now that you've met the real Dan Harmon and
fucked up in front of them, leave. But you know, you know, he was gonna just come over and say,
can I buy you a drink, motherfucker? But you know, he wasn't he wasn't because I read through this
a thousand times. Like he he was he was he was he was revising he came back. Yeah,
to salvage completely needless like salvage. It's like you didn't have anything to salvage
ever. Like, like, what are you? You're like that. I was the one blower. But in whose eyes was like,
Oh, remember that guy. Hey, remember me like this. I'm not gonna remember. I'm gonna get I'm
not even gonna remember the details of the story while I'm shit talking you.
Damn, dude, I'm blowing up.
Shit, it's him.
Her during real time, Justin didn't like what you said.
And it was it was it was a bad it was I will forever regret this because I was I was like I
knew it. It's been like three weeks. I was like, Oh, you never told that story. I would have had
like some I would have had the whole thing in my head. It was it's bad podcasting. But that's why
you're here. I mean, otherwise, you're just you're you're you're you're you're you're experimenting.
I guess you're walking around downtown and you're like, let's go to a podcast we don't know is bad
yet. Let's see if it's bad. If those people I feel bad for the rest of you, you're getting what you
paid for, you know that. But sometimes we also have guests come on. This one is no exception.
Just gets better and better. Really, really. That was a fun like kind of alt comedy intro.
Yeah, I wrote a new dry alt comedy kind of like way of introducing people.
I just I this is one of those one of those one of those shows that I've been hearing about forever.
That's always like you should watch this. It's really funny. I could see from the ads. It probably
was never did just dove into it. I fully admittedly because he was coming to the to the show. I'm so
impressed with his stuff. Can't wait to talk to him about it and other stuff because there's a lot
of stuff he's able to talk about and he ruins it all. Please welcome Adam Conover from Adam ruins
everything. So nice to be here. What do they call a person that is it a polydact? Is that a word?
Yeah, a person who's got more than one hand. Oh, no, I think it's a person who knows more than
one thing. Is that is that will that be polydact? I think so. I think so. Polymath, polymath.
I think it might be polymath. Anyways. Yeah, I thank you. This has been great.
I watched like five episodes of your show today. Thank you. Popped around multiple seasons and
stuff. I was really, really impressed now. And we'll get the plug in out of the way is that
it's a it may be an ill timed plug, but like there's stuff coming up in July. Was that it?
Yeah, yeah, we've got new episodes. We got new episodes up in July. We are on Netflix now,
which is very exciting. And we also have new episodes coming out at the end of March on
Netflix. They're not new, but they're new to Netflix. So but it's weird because people who
just have Netflix are like behind everybody else, but they don't even know that there's
more episodes of the show to watch. It's a very strange state of affairs. That's cool because
yeah, that satisfaction of when that Netflix seal opens and you know, you're going to get like
0.03 cents more. Is that what happens? We have not we have not gotten a like a residuals round
on it yet. I don't know how that Netflix doesn't do back end. If you didn't get any money the day
Netflix came into your life, then you're never going to see any. No, it means they just they
just came in your window and took your dresser. It's a weird they're like what you wanted people
to see you. Yeah, it's really weird. The state of affairs of being like a modern creative person
is like just hoping that a platform bestows its unearned like sea of eyeballs on you in like a
windfall and then hoping to God it doesn't go away for no reason later that you don't get
fucked by some algorithm tweak that they made to try to stop anti-vaxxers or something. Suddenly
no one's watching you now. It's bizarre. What's the what's the viewership like on true TV? What
kind of world are you mired in? Are they are they are they are they are you mired or are you more
in a quagmire and are you I just mean like do you get emails that are like well 0.7 last night
not as good as we hoped but is it still that world in basic cable or yeah I mean it's I don't
know the you know I sort of don't find out the week to week you know I get told hey the premiere
was good and then I get told later on you know oh we did you know you did okay or it was flat or
whatever but I mean the numbers are crazy like we heard last year that like oh well you know we
you know the numbers were other it was flat your ratings didn't go up from year two to year three
right and I say oh it's a little disappointing and then I found out later that the ratings for
all of cable television had dropped 10% in one year so we were flat we went up yeah like we're
we're beating everybody else it's like I keep telling me people about my weight I'm 46 years old
if I get a little bit fatter that means I'm like fucking like ripped like I'm like I'm like
actively not acroding like I'm not exploding you know anyways but but that was the same as like
like when I was at NBC it was like but except the worst part was like they didn't that at least you
could well you said you found out later but like it was it was years of Venice sinking and being
measured as sinking but everyone just kept blaming the shows like yeah like how can you
blame all of the shows for all shows failing in ratings like if the office is also failing
by the same amount you have to take that part off of yelling at me now now they're starting I
am totally with that and now they're they're starting to get it and you I have conversations
with TV executives more where they say like yeah you know we gotta we gotta get on some new platforms
I mean cable television just is not doing well I'm like you're a cable executive where are you
gonna go no it's cool I just found out my company's buying an oil company uh next week like I pretty
soon we're gonna be Time Warner Mobile um they're they're trying to start you know Turner's starting
a streaming service sometime hopefully before LA collapses into the ocean and I think that's
their next big thing but we're doing what I mean look we have true TV is a great audience
you know in practical jokers is on our network and that's the best thing ever because in practical
jokers if you guys have seen the show wonderful show wonderful prank show they run it like 23
and a half hours a day it's just true TV is on demand in practical jokers and it's one of the
most popular shows on cable right and then people who are just sitting there watching practical
jokers and after a while my show comes on and they go oh what's this hey I like that too and so
that's good for me we always have the best lead in on the network no matter what happens and yours
isn't yours isn't constantly being run because that's another factor yeah they do right they
we do pretty good in reruns too they give us you know they'll do two hour blocks throughout the year
and stuff like that I'll say adult swim they don't they don't either maybe this is privileged maybe
because we're a gigantic hit you're welcome yeah I don't think it is because I mean we were I mean
adult swim never they I haven't heard a goddamn decimal number since I left NBC really I adult
swims well they're making their money a thousand ways they've got it you know like you're you're
on lunch boxes yeah not lunch boxes but they run their programming like yeah just on this big round
clock a big round clock um Harmon explains television uh but and then and then and this how would you
even be able to yell at anybody like oh it looks like you're taking a dip it's like what what what
dip like maybe maybe yeah maybe you've accidentally adequately captured the appeal of the show maybe
80 people want to watch it at 9 a.m. yeah and then another 10 people want to watch it an hour later
um but anyways but uh I just well so that that's that's us ruining television maybe
ruining a cable but um I'm very happy to be surviving in the it's so it's there's it everything
is exploding right now in a million ways and everything's being disrupted so it's I'm very
happy to just be surviving at all it's a great it's a great show I did that that's the that's the
that's the important news is that creatively and I biggest compliment uh I I have is that I was so
I had so much shit to do today I I I'm in I'm in big trouble I'm like I'm like really really
behind on a draft and I wasn't using you to procrastinate because I really did want to
finish my fucking draft but I knew I had to watch at least an episode of your show thank you and I
and I did and then I watched five and I had to peel myself away I was really I really thank you
like it I I I let's figure out later if this was a good or a bad idea how many people in the
audience by applause have seen this show oh my gosh that's pretty nice I mean I that's a good way
and if there's anybody if you're focusing on the negative space that means potential yeah that's
now there now we're now we're marketing and then yeah those other people are like well what are
the clapping people know I don't know uh I want to be a clapping person one one one reason why
maybe people I to use my eye statements like I think a reason I didn't I didn't flock to it
is I live in fear of my own cynicism and stuff I struggle so hard to stay positive yeah even
humanity and stuff and uh I remember I think the dark kind of clubfooted cousin of your show is
Penn and Teller's bullshit on Showtime yeah I I have a I love that show when it came out and uh
but there were certain things that that there's certain things totally that that show did that
I knew that I wanted to do something a little bit different from um but I love I'm a huge fan of
Penn and Teller um and uh and what those guys do their show in Vegas is incredible if you've
you've never seen it um just a little myth busters in there as well in oh and myth busters in terms
of influence on on our show uh a little bit except we're not we never do experiments and things
like that I'm like not handy at all you know like there's no like live demos um but uh yeah a little
bit you know but I do think I think that the the incredible exception that made a difference which
is immediately apparent from the pilot and then it's there in every show I mean one of the things
is that tonally there is just a clear difference in that it's like comedy versus tragedy kind of
thing like it's like at the end of the day either your show believes the viewer should kill themself
or not um and and your show like it has this it it has this heart to it in fact it's inviting
people up to skepticism and yeah set us as if it's not implying that uh if you didn't already know
this you it's because you're dumb and um and and also like um now that you know this you know that
life means less yeah it's the opposite I mean the the one of the modos of the show is that my
character has and that I have personally is it's always better to know that I don't believe that
there's any you know there's any virtue and ignorance whatsoever and that you're always
better knowing the truth and the reason is because that makes you more powerful and capable and
you know more able in the world um and so we want to make a show that that shows that um but I'm not
a negative or cynical person by nature um and so it was important to us to have that positive
thing at the end although I think it was actually on the pilot I think it was the best network
note I've ever gotten where they were like you need something positive at the end like the four oh
man we're a four we're a four act show and they were like the fourth act should be just an uplifting
message of some kind you know um and that's the best on paper that sounds like the it's a
prototypical terrible studio yeah exactly like oh come on I gotta find a positive spin every time
right can they can can can can the can can I I was gonna try to riff the name of like a character
that's like a guy you love to hate I was like can Rick can Rick from Rick and Morty can he be good
at his job yeah I was like yeah no exactly it's not a dog that he loves just to show us that you
know yeah it sounds too polyanna but in this case what was the hardest uh positive fourth act piece
like what was the hardest one you think you did that or are they all like oh it's actually
there's always something positive on well there's somewhere the ones that work the best are where
there's a specific thing that people can do where it's like now that you know this instead of doing
the bad thing that you were doing before here's the good thing that you can do you know instead of
like giving you know instead of buying Tom shoes in our pilot you can give money to people directly
and that's much better for them right um the hard ones are where it's like really diffuse like what
the solution is um like our climate change episodes are the most difficult ones and we did
this whole episode where about climate change um that uh was very important to me we did it in uh
2016 and the big takeaway at the end and this was like literally me go that a lot of times
I'm working through it myself you know um like I I was literally wrestling with what the fuck
are we gonna do about climate change no one is making any progress um how do I think about this
because it seems really dire and we talked to this um climate thinker and philosopher Dale
Jameson who made the point that like look it's not when people talk about climate change and they
say the end of the world is coming if we don't do this the world is gonna end that's always false
right um you can always make a choice today to make a better tomorrow no matter how things no
matter how bad things are gonna get you're never off the hook right um because there's no there's
no such thing as the apocalypse right because there'll always be people who are living um and
he said the best reason to be positive is because of the Paris agreement because every country came
together and it just happened every country came together and made this agreement and so we did an
episode where we talked about that you know that that was the fourth act thank god for the Paris
agreement because this is the best sign we've ever had and then and then and then between
shooting and airing was november 2016 um and uh we had to release a we released a little bumper
at the end which was like okay so the Paris agreement is uh uh we're kind of worried about
it now and um you should like phone call somebody call get one of those apps and um and call it
congressperson fuck you know um you got a little bobcat there oh shit yeah i become bobcat gold
wait in my darker moments the uh the what the episode that really uh i i've done a five i watched
but i i saw obviously when the title of the episode is different i'm like okay i'm zooming in on that
and uh there's this character emily in the show who's your oft antagonist slash whatever play by
emily ruining everything for her and she she wrote with you on the original college humor series he
said yeah yeah um and uh plays herself i put you know her her name's emily she's not playing herself
she's playing a bro it's a based on her loosely yeah but that she's um you know she she gets these
episodes where she gets to ruin you yeah and um which is a combination of a corrections segment
yeah which your character is excited about which i was really impressed by i thought it was such
great meta storytelling like i that i love i'm really impressed with the amount of character
that you're doing in a show that's just like a true tv like hey it's me this is my name and
here's the thing i'm going to ruin it's like you have arcs and and each episode has a story to it
it like there's and this is so cathartic for someone to finally because nobody points out this
part of the show to me very rarely does someone say oh i like the story arcs you know and we
put so much work into that part of the show i truly believe that that everyone notices it
enjoys it but they don't in the back of their minds yeah because they're uh they're inferior
non-elites um they don't have our galaxy hollywood they haven't earned the the conscious pleasure
but they're allowed the unconscious they feel it deep down in their animal brain stems it's the
it's the scars on my back that are shaped like joseph cambell circles that the wounds
allow his work to seep in at every level for you you'll think oh i like this show
i know why
but uh it really i truly it really i i i here's the thing like i it for a non-fiction show to
like i'm like it was like it was a little it reminded me a doctor who kind of like like
because there's a consistency to your character and you have a companion yeah and she was like
it's my turn to fuck with you which is like first of all here's all the shit that people have
corrected us on that we did in the past and but here's the really impressive thing to me as a
master storyteller in the first act of that story adam is like oh goody i love being ruined
because it's like the adam's family right like like hey what if you ruined a ruin or will
the ruin or would love it he loves ruination oh good more ruining and i was like well that's
probably gonna just be the thing right she's gonna get increasingly frustrated but then there's this
threshold that's crossed where they they get they get through the corrections and they start talking
about this thing called the backfire effect which is a thing you may have heard about probably since
the election um uh or maybe i mean maybe but not by that name but this idea that um uh when we uh
when we're when we're emotionally connected to something that we believe um uh unlike with
something else like if i said what's that you're eating and you go slim gyms and i go you know
it's better is slim gyms ultra if you don't care you're probably gonna be like i'll try those yeah
yeah um you love those conversations like what are you listening to the pixies that you should
listen to the pokes okay uh do they both have pee in them okay i wish we had used these actouts on
the show these would have been a great demonstration i wish the backfire effect happens when you tell
somebody as the obvious example is who'd you vote for oh natalie portman well she rapes children
um you should and she pollutes the rivers and um you didn't know that and so you should vote for
bernie uh i'm trying to change the name so that we don't play so you're gonna change bernie sanderson
natalie portman and bernie sanderson i'm not good at names
everybody in your shows are is named who they were named i just tried to imagine
someone's like no queen she was good as queen amadala is that her okay thank you um but they
they it actually not only is there a deflector shield yeah actually studies have shown that if
you just lob a kind of like you're wrong about everything the earth is actually round at a flat
earth or if or if they're a flat earth that has linked their fucking sexuality or their their
heart to flat earth which how else would you be a flat and it can be even more powerful than that
my favorite example that i've ever heard is like imagine shon hanity right if shon hanity woke up
tomorrow and read a study that convinced him climate change was real and we had to do everything to
stop it now right his whole life is based around the opposite his career is his family his relationships
to his friends are you know if he was like no no i think climate change is real he'd become a pariah
among everybody he knew it's not just his emotional identity it's his social identity it's everything
he is as a person so there's no way for him right your money yeah i forget heart and soul and testicles
like your your it could be your wallet it could be your social standing it could be your anything if
there's an investment there the the the invasion of of an alternative fact can actually make you
just double down yes it's almost like your muscles your muscles tense up and and uh it this is that
the so not only was this an incredible episode just to learn about this stuff in a digestible
way but also that i'm watching it as master storyteller um your character in the show
that's the threshold he crosses where he's like yeah i don't want to hear about this
yeah because it implies that your show doesn't have any value which is what my identity both the
characters at any and my own personal identity is wrapped up in the premise idea that ruining
everything doesn't mean anything yeah it may is how you get dr who to like yeah question himself
yeah and i love that so much and it all happens just within one boxing ring with emily just dressed
she's just punching you in the face telling you yeah so it's not about like uh there didn't need
to be a car chase in order for this to be like a dynamic story i thought it was really cool and
i'm only learning this amazing thing which it uh okay Harmon uh landed use a period
you did it the back the backfire effect though so how do we oh oh the one it was like as it is
explained in your show the reason for the backfire effect the software we're working with or maybe
we should call the hardware yeah the hardware um the emotional wires they run faster than the logical
ones yeah but you're never gonna win like we may as well just accept that humans are passionate
illogical well and if we do that then it that gives us the tools that we need to overcome the
backfire effect right like that my favorite thing uh about the uh segment was you know we went uh
this guy who we interviewed on the show steven luandowski and his uh partners in academia wrote
like a debunkers handbook um and you know that explains here's how to debunk things better um
and it's a lot of stuff we already do on the show and the the thing that sticks between the most is
it's about the power of stories right um that uh people so often when they believe something that's
wrong they have a story about it like here's and you know you just uh like any fact that you know
you probably have a story for how things got that way right america is like this because george
washington chopped down the thing and the person wrote the thing and whatever right um and so if
you can replace the bad story the incorrect story with a story that is both truer and more interesting
right right that's how you uh can convince them and when he told me that i was like oh that's the
that's our fucking show that's like all we do black history rosa parks yeah uh i i okay let's
let's do it i i'm ready i'm white and i'm ready to talk about it happy february brandon
um the can we give you like a list can we give you like a list of things to that you could ruin
right here tonight well let's call out some stuff if we do that now then i'll be the guy that just
pointed at people snapped and said black history rosa parks and then we moved on i i i have to
just explain that i i i've been i've been doing like an hour of reading in the mornings before
my instagram workouts now i have more to explain but i won't um but uh i'm proud of you but that i i
i initially here's the here's the path that i went through i'm gonna be a hipster uh artisanal
black historian for my workout so why would i do anything that we learned about in high school so
let's skip rosa parks then i think first of all what that probably takes a lot of work how do you
skip rosa parks probably by being smarter and spending more time so let's do rosa parks yeah
then i but then so then like oh i guess what the first step is going back to like sixth grade
where you you you have this george washington cherry tree story right yeah rosa parks was an
old black lady who was on a bus and she had a lot of bags and she was very tired and and the climate
of of racial injustice was was just like uh uh bubbling and a and a brewing and this innocent
perfectly uh unaffiliated like woman who just represented all of america because she didn't
want nothing to do with none of this um she was just tired and she wanted to sit down and from that
sparked a revolution because and it's like now i'm realizing like that was the sinister that george
washington cherry tree tree story is propaganda about hey you don't have to be an activist you
should just sit down and shut the fuck up if you want to cause change like just do what makes you
well but the truth is she was 40 she was so later when you're 20 you learn you you you hear these
like whispers of these like hey you know that rosa parks thing it's all bullshit it was orchestrated
there were a million rows of parks before rows of parks a million people sat on buses that were
they weren't supposed to yeah and she and she was a she works for the n double acp what do you
think about that and and it's like i got i got whispers of that i remember at some point i was
like oh boy i you know yeah then you then you just read her fucking wikipedia page yeah which is not
the truth probably no wikipedia but the truth is it's an amazing story yes yes she worked for the
n double acp shout out to claudette colvin yeah claudette roda's oh sorry sorry claudette colvin
was the 29th of february claudette colvin was the uh the original rosa parks yeah she's 15 years
old yeah and she was she was pregnant so it's a little darker skinned so they were like we got
this rosa parks and the wings to sort of fully illustrate your point there was a pregnant yes
there was a yes and she would not have withstood yeah this is also a thing it's like do you want
to put that kind of pressure on it on a young woman that is going to yeah you have to go
all the way up to the supreme court everyone is going to attack you for the rest of your life
rosa parks died uh she was like she was attacked for the rest of her life she lost her job as a
seamstress her husband lost his job because he wasn't allowed to talk about his famous wife at work
they had to change states she died alone in an apartment that was robbed like like she was robbed
but then she was moved to a higher uh income apartment beautiful beautiful apartments owned by
the pizza pizza people little seizures we won't name them because we have a you'll hear the ads for
domino so we we have to call little seizures the pizza pizza people pizza people because what
happened was she did get robbed people had sort of forgotten about her she was in detroit and then
lovingly the community stepped in and said you can't rob her anymore and then she was living in
hey that's rosa parks don't rob her usually they broke into her house they took all of her chairs
wait really come on come on so she could never sit down is that true yeah it's awful
it's awful black history month now you know the fucking truth
anyways my point i just got excited because when you said that you're watching today i was like i
just experienced that exact same thing is my only point well this gets to your point about about
cynicism right because this is what our show this is why our show is not a cynical show because you
hear those that cynical version like oh yeah rosa park she wasn't the first one there's this other
girl claudette colvin who they fucked her over because they she was pregnant the first whispers
are like if you knew as much as we knew you'd hate life and you'd hate everyone and you'd hate
rosa parks but no it's the fact is the true story i believe is always a better story and the true
story is that she was an activist and they were and they were thinking strategically and so yeah
they were like hey claudette colvin that's happened to her you know what i bet we can find
someone who will play better in the press it was purely strategic also claudette was sort of a
bitch she was really rude and she would not do press she was like i don't like sitting down on
nothing so they were like we got to swap somebody in but like that that goes to show you that goes
to show you how smart and committed those activists were the nc double eight then double acp was at
that time and uh and how good a job they did and the story about her being a little old lady was
you know more or less created by that movement because it's a good story you know like it's it's
not it's not an evil story it's like it's helpful to the movement it's it's yeah it's putting a
different face on what is the set yeah the uh and that's and that's press and that's politics and
that and you know there's nothing there's nothing wrong with that but you have a you have a furlough
you have a fuller understanding of what the movement actually accomplished if you understood no these
were activists who were trying to accomplish something and they went about it in a very smart
way and you can too right and so then when you look at those kids like i don't know the kids who
like want to die in feinstein this week and like went to her office and like look how smart that is
you know to like hey we're children we're literal children saying hello we would like the planet to
be around when we're here you know we are a and feinstein was like uh well then let me drink your
blood we are we are we are a pack who has pushed these children into a senator's office the children
can't tell you what school they're from because they're not supposed to be part of they're not
political pawns but there is a group called the sunrise organization that hires a bunch of people
to pound their way into democratic senator's offices the same move that they did to polosi
it's not a bunch of kids it's not random it's a it's an orchestrated event where people have
cameras where they set up old female democrats that is not a cool tactic at all oh interesting
they didn't go to republic and always always always always well those those kids went to
mitch mcconnell's office today they were in mitch mcconnell's up oh i don't i i right couldn't tell
you the details look well we that's how you know it's a scam is that we didn't send first of all
we don't use kids as pawns that that's number one number two they don't they don't send them
they don't send them into a candidate who doesn't have a green plan shit a green plan right for them
and when they did the same thing to polosi polosi handed them a plan why weren't those kids giving
that plan before they walked in why weren't those kids hooked up with the knowledge they needed
and how come those adults allowed those kids to yell at an older senator that's shit bullshit
california is the greenest state in the nation take your ass to the kentucky senator's office
go to philadelphia go to go to pennsylvania's office don't don't just fuck with the female
candidates the female senators jam these are these are these these are don't make a two minute
don't make a two minute edited tape you lost me when you posted a two minute edited tape the whole
tape has her receiving those kids with love uh this brings up something i did i i was gonna
like lead with tonight which would not not which was just this fascinating fact that we've now here
we go here we go again two years well actually kind of three years later i i remember distinctly
the point where it was where the primary season was upon us and um and i remember if you if you go
back i swear if you rewind the podcast you'll listen to me being absolutely silent about politics
and the reason is because it was the whole it was like hillary people versus elizabeth waran
people versus bernie people versus things and i was like i through pure cowardice not through
nobility because as you saw later as soon as the election happened i was like what this world's
fucked i gotta say some shit um but i was just sort of like it's time for the groundhog to go
back in his hole and i mean what is the it it relates to the backfire effect this idea that
we're we're we all know now we're watching this we're there's a shit storm coming it's a shit
storm that includes our best friends yelling at each other uh it includes this podcast possibly
getting inflammatory if there's somebody out here that that that that says something it's like
i remember i remember years ago you know i remember my friend heath being up here and going like well
what about elizabeth waran and just like i remember other people that i respected and who i wanted to
be happy like fucking basically how can i describe it other than bullying him like like like like
shouting him down and like our this backfire effect means that like that's why the age old
tradition of we don't talk about religion and politics right because those are the those are the
those are the facts that we're all invested in which means that every time we hear something
other than what we already thought we constrict right i mean people are already attaching their
identities to specific candidates and specific you know like platforms and like i don't know
if that's necessarily a bad thing right um i think that is kind of how it works yeah yeah i thought
like 80 of the country doesn't right like they're not helping us and i think we i think we are
kind of doing actual i think what it is is it's actual politics like that's actual you know
political action is it's nice those conversation those arguments sounds more like people are
using the words socialist fascist authoritarianism it's like we're actually doing politics in this
country for the first time or at least yeah for the first time in like 50 years and so people
got to like learn how to do it over again because i remember people oh don't talk about politics at
a dinner party i was like why not you just say i like the president the end you know like there
wasn't much or i don't like like it was i don't know it was kind of easy during the bush years
too i don't like it all right moving on you know we got a couple years till the election now there's
like uh you know there's actual shit to be worked out yeah i mean i didn't recognize them as politics
because the morning after the election it was this thing that was making all the women cry
it that that wasn't politics to me which means i'm a misogynist i was like waking up to that i'm
like yeah why why is that waitress eyes so red well because something horrible happened last night
that sent her a signal after like her entire life but etc etc and it'd be and as i gained access to
that it wasn't the political thing to me it was me realizing i was i was part of a problem without
realizing etc etc so for me it was like a journey of self-discovery and then as as my self-discovery
is unfolding i'm triggering people who are going like jesus fucking christ stop talking about politics
you fucking lump of fat hairy shit with gross flappy tits you disgusting soyboy fucking virtue
signaling cock beta fucking pedophile fuck how did they know you were a cock
well you know it's it would be cool if we didn't talk about behavior
and we just talked about policy it'd be good if we got back to like let's just talk policy
yeah i mean on our show like you know we do i don't want to say our show is is not political
because it is because we talk about issues that can only be resolved through politics politics
has all defined it half-assedly right now being like the process of how we decide what we're going
to do you know in a in a country of people who have differing beliefs right how do you create a
consensus or create like a dominant majority for a particular issue right but we talk about you
know so we talk about like mass incarceration and and you know criminal justice and climate change
and things like that we don't talk about you know we rarely say the name of a political party or
like use that sort of like angle that you're going to get on it from the daily show right
and part of that reason is we're trying to get to people in a more we're trying to hit people at
their best and at their most thoughtful and their most open to new ideas rather than activating
that identity based part of them is there an operation board game aspect to the to the back
fire effect you can actually avoid let's call them trigger trigger phrases yeah a little bit
you know yeah we we will we will try to make arguments that we think nobody could disagree
with right like uh you know for the most part for instance when we're making an argument about uh
about like that such and such a policy is like discriminatory you know everyone if you present
to people the basic premise of like you know policies shouldn't be racially discriminatory
right we can all agree that everyone should be treated the same by the government everyone will
go yes i agree with that and then we say okay here's a case that it's not happening and then
they'll go okay that probably shouldn't happen you know like though if you engage with them that
way they'll they'll all agree with that that premise if you start with it where it's like
this person is you know like this party is destroying america people will get there we'll
get there it almost seems like we're defining diplomacy a little bit yeah yeah it seems like
like like our our country was founded by a bunch of diplomats people who were like really fond and
good at like talking around a topic yeah uh in in such high-flown terms that how are you
gonna argue with this yeah and that maybe that's what good diplomacy is when you like every time
that that every issue tends to get like pulled down into factionalism and they they love to
attribute catchphrases to it yeah and those catchphrases are often indistinguishable from
perfectly logical words like up in this cloud but as soon as they're down there they're off the table
and so you have to be like this weird person who speaks like they sound like a fucking
thesaurus because that's what we're doing is kind of like rising above everything and floating and
going like well it's uh is this belief that a mankind that should prosper should but you know
it's like why why aren't they just talking about the tories that we know what this is about
fucking tories rule and it's uh and if they mentioned tomatoes because of that tomato riot
like i know that's dog whistling yeah we we we try to avoid all that stuff you know we did an
episode about about guns for our season premiere this year and we um uh in the past like our first
year i was like we'll never do an episode about guns because that's like one of the big fault lines
of american society like as soon as you do that episode because how do you ruin guns yeah well
the well that's a good question um but you know as soon as we talk about people will be like as
soon as you say okay i'm gonna do an episode about guns everyone folds their arms and they say well
you better say what i want you to say well yeah i'm gonna change i'm gonna change the channel if
you don't i'm gonna be watching you like a hawk you better say my side right now you know and so
after doing the show for a couple years i was like i think we can do it i think we can at least
make an attempt to do an episode that like gets people a little bit off balance um and hits the
issue in a way that destabilizes them that hopefully they'll be a little more open-minded to that
you know we we we try to hit things where everybody misunderstands about that everybody's
wrong about this do you think when you ruined guns i didn't watch that episode do you think when you
ruined guns that you um uh was there fixed it yes no no no i think we did it was there a uh
did you kind of ruin it for everybody uh that was that was our that was our attempt i mean
it was really interesting because we really want to do an episode that would speak to everybody
speak to i hate saying both sides because i don't actually believe in i love for you to ruin dichotomy
yeah just ruin fucking binary ruin the hegele and dialectic um the i mean that that's what
we're that is what we were trying to do you know because these these coalitions are based around
these catchphrases and these buzzwords that are very narrow sort of cognitive troughs that they're
like stuck in you know and so we were trying to get people out of that and say hey here's a couple
basic things that we can agree on and then here's a couple things that everybody is getting wrong
right um so for for instance our our third act was was entirely about how guns interact with
race in america which is something that you know is very rarely people who are pro gun
controller very rarely having that conversation people who are pro gun rights are very rarely
having that conversation um and uh uh yeah that was our that was our approach um and then we
yeah i mean it was very difficult to do that without falling into both sidesism because
that's the you know that's the shitty version of that hey there's a lot of shit to go around
you know you're wrong you're wrong here i am in the middle like standing on top of my bullshit
mountain right um but uh and i think we were if someone were to come up to me and tell me
hey this was both sides bullshit i'd be like okay we did our best you know um like i'm not
gonna argue with you but we tried not to do that very hard i mean that's a remarkable and chilling
like description of the of the ice we're walking across where it's like there's a term now for both
sidesism yeah um but yeah like i wish there weren't sides and uh yeah now the term both sides is
absolutely attributable to what let's call him new hitler i don't know what i don't know what to call
him bad hitler dumb hitler but yeah but literally like came out of his mouth i'm like you could never
say both sides ever again yeah uh while taking yourself seriously as a uh arbiter yeah you because
now and i i've actually detected that with the i've started to notice like i won't talk about
freedom of speech anymore because the truth is that millennials have heard enough uh have heard
that phrase so many times um yeah during um arguments about why they shouldn't uh complain about
their rights their other other why they shouldn't speak up in defense of themselves even though i
feel like the day i die it's it's either going to be prostate cancer a heart attack or i'm being
shot specifically about first amendment shit um that i won't i won't talk about it anymore
because i sound racist when i say freedom of speech yeah yeah um because because the dialectic
the dialogue changes yeah i know what's going on back something happened back there uh blue screen
uh oh god oh no brandon's uh i mean this segways into well rob wanted to you want to you do you
do you have any random things you want to see if adam can ruin because he truly has ruined okay here
we go here we go here we go skateboards oh shit i mean uh say pass what is that i mean those i've
never seen anyone do a trick okay there is the oldest joke in the book but they always fall off
they're always like you see the guy do the flip and then he's like ah fucking he takes a couple
stutter step says the only thing i've ever seen anyone do on a skateboard awesome apples
apples uh yeah okay um apples are really interesting because uh they uh if you just like
plant an apple seed in the ground this is weird and true you get like a random apple like something
about apples mean they don't breed true they like breed in crazy ways you know so you'll get like
just a weird fucking probably inedible apple um and as a result people for most of the time
johnny apple seed he wasn't planting apples to uh you know eating they were only usable for cider
so he was actually planting booze trees all over america is a hundred percent true that's in michael
pollin's book the botany desire um and as a result what happened is if you randomly got an edible
apple you'd be like holy shit i'm gonna be a billionaire because then you would start grafting
the tree and cloning it right off of your original uh tree and so it was sort of like a striking oil
like to find uh an apple like oh i i uh granny smith i got it like you know um and uh so most
apples are clones that's uh what i know about apples yeah i mean i'm just i'm literally just
repeating things from new yorker articles like that's all that's all that's from michael pollin's
book the botany desire is that you say in the pilot you go by the way every time i say something
there's a bug up in the corner of the screen there's yeah it cites the reference i did that
specifically because i was just a comedian and i was like why should anybody believe anything i
say i need to let them know it's you know books somewhere well why else would they believe it
i do and i glance up there when you say something and i go like god damn it what and then i'll see
like slate 2011 i'll go like well you know i i'm sure that person did their reason you know what
i mean like but it's it's a proper kind of like yes it makes me feel more comfortable that's a big
theme of your show too is the idea that peer review and the idea of being wrong builds trust it's okay
to be wrong be wrong admit you're wrong it's the corrections page in a newspaper you know uh it's
when someone is we try to be transparent about our process so that people like uh one of our our
head of research natalie sure has a great um uh phrase for this i can't remember exactly what
it was but um it's uh not the idea that someone is perfect or that you know oh sorry it's uh
credibility is more important than accuracy right um because you're not going to be a hundred percent
accurate but what you can be is as credible as you can and so you can say about someone hey they do
their research they uh they approach these issues in a credible you know respectful uh you know top
of their intelligence way when they're wrong they fess up to it like this is a person who i can trust
in a way right and so that's the that's the ideal that that we go that we go for yeah all you have
is your word so always you my therapist would say always use your eye statements if you're
taught you know if you're talking to somebody about emotional issues just always always make sure
you're always talking about how you feel yes that way like well you know you could be you could be a
crazy person but yeah you would be constantly people could rely on you yes you could be like
like yeah Dan's always he's nuts but i know exactly how he's nuts because he's always like
those windmills make me want to eat more salt and um but yeah i am now very upset about my
circumcision by the way i saw the sex episode and i did not i wasn't sure what to think about
i guess the one the what the one nice thing about it is that if i have a kid i don't think
there we go i'm pretty sure i'm not gonna have him circumvent that's my favorite thing that uh
people will come up to me and say and they'll say they'll say i didn't they'll say we didn't
circumcise our kid because of you and i say yes if you could change one life if you if you could
change one uh small child's penis in a positive way if now look i i just i want to say that uh
circumcision our position is there's no particular reason to do it right it's not a terrible thing
to do and if people do it for religious reasons that that's fine or whatever there's no medical
reason to do it and so if you're of the general position that i am which is don't perform unnecessary
surgeries unless you have a really good reason then hey why not not do it you know and like
there's certain you know uh uh yeah that that's about it but i don't i don't want to i went on
the business shame in anybody's hygiene thing but then i thought i was like wait a minute why would
cavemen have a piece of their penis that if left untended gives you an infection no there's no sense
they roll around in dirt the the forest can serves a the forest can serves a purpose it
cut it it covers the penis which is a sensitive area that could get dirty it's kind of time on
Harmontown in that same episode i mean you you could have broke these into three episodes but
in that same episode herpes and hymens i i was wrong about all of them two h's herpes herpes
90 of people have some form of herpes some form of herpes herpes isn't extremely uh so the problem
with herpes is that people the real scourge of herpes is that people get a herpes test and then
they're told they have herpes and then they're like oh no i have a horrible std and now i can't
have sex with normal people you know i can't i'm a pariah and they sort of feel you know like but
most people who have herpes 90 of people have some form of herpes um and then you know mouth
herpes like there's that's talking all over the body right but like so many people have herpes
don't know that they have it and that's fine because it never affects their lives at all
is it because they don't get tested or is it because it's because it's for most people it's
so asymptomatic you wouldn't know that you had it and so sometimes people i've i've talked to people
who are like i went to get an std test and i told the doctor i wanted a herpes test too and they
said don't get one because doctors know that you're you probably have it and finding out that you
do have it is just going to make you put a social stigma on yourself so you're better off because
it's a thing that like everybody everybody has now that's now you know there there are like
yeah everybody has it see
the jokes are too good to resist despite that everybody has but that yeah it's uh
it's shame i mean i love that that that uh your your episode on sex we try to remove
shank circumcision to hymen to herpes yeah and it comes around to the fourth act of
what explains all this stuff all the things that were wrong about shame yeah shame surrounding
sexuality little boys are having their their dick tips cut off at birth based on at best now
we're not questioning anybody if you're if you're getting your dick tip cut off for a 5000 year old
reason we're i'm not saying this podcast is not saying hey storm the gates i i i have no business
there but um but truthfully if you if you're just uh it's it's questionable reasons we don't there's
no science that suggests it was a fad in the 19th century that that they thought would stop kids
from masturbating yeah and that's why i took off in the united states but not in most of the world
right it was a us i do wonder what my life would be like if i masturbated more if that would be a
bad thing but i i apparently this this procedure does not stop people from masturbating i gotta say
it probably the main thing it's done is it's probably really increased lube sales in america
because uh the foreskin's a natural lubricant and uh if you don't have i think you need more lube
it's because it's a mucous membrane i assume because you cited you said that if you're if you're
gay um uh not being circumcised uh a person uh being circumcised will reduce the hiv uh uh risk
right but but but not but we're talking about so there's back versus condoms condoms reduce it by
80 percent i i he points at me like to continue um i uh yeah there's there's a small effect that's
been shown that being circumcised can really can reduce the risk of std transmission in
certain cases by some percentage right but it's like some small percentage it's like your chances
of transmitting it are like 10 less or something like that um which is to my mind not a good reason
to chop off part of your body you can wear a condom right or if you can practice safer sex you
don't need a surgical right like nothing nothing beats a condom in the first place which is the
important i read an article the ones that said if we were to uh if we were to circumcise a third of
men on earth we could reduce the cases of uh cervical cancer which is caused by hpv by a
couple thousand per year right like you're going to circumcise two billion people like billions
of people in order to just give out condoms you know like it's a better that that's a better
that's a better plan than hey we're going to go around with scalpel still like everywhere in
in the world right uh that's my that's my feeling about it anymore i just think about my dog
they get they get that little lipstick comes out and then well the reason that lipstick isn't always
out is because they're not circumcised yeah yeah yeah like like so i'm like looking at imagine if
we circumcised dogs it was that all the time that would be horrible like the dog would be so bummed
out like yeah but again again it's like the the thing of one of the reasons it's been able to
persist is because it's not a particularly bad thing to be circumcised right um and so uh it's
like fine it's totally great and the reason the myth around hymens has persisted because it
it blends perfectly in with our kind of like bullying yeah young girls are saying like oh there's
this event that's going to happen when you have sex for the first time you should think about it more
than the guy does because the guy could just stick it in and go away yeah and uh you however you're
the recipient of this thing and we're trusting you with this like drum skin that's like and
then oh god boy you better not yeah you'll be changed forever yeah it's actually it's practicality
that that perpetuates that myth it's a little more insidious than the circumcision oh it's
incredible yeah it's incredibly insidious and it's simply not true it's just that the hymen does
just doesn't exist that way hymen is just a thing it's not has nothing to it's all i got the
impression it's unrelated to sex like that it's just a fucking thing you know i don't want to get
too outside of my lane um uh talking about it because you know we did that as a episode a couple
years ago we made our claims there and you know i'm not an expert on on female anatomy i've never
seen a woman but but yeah i mean the hymen is not a barrier that is covering the you know vagina
and then the first time it comes through it's like you know ruptured forever like that doesn't
that's literally what i pictured my entire life was i was like it's like a freshness seal it's
like a fucking capri sun boom you go through there you're never going to close that capri sun again
and that's what i thought it was and i had sex ed in you guys characterize it as that paper thing
on a football field that the band comes through but i but i really love this this goes back to
how much heart this show has on that football field this character of emily uh uh uh uh adam
is is standing with emily's uh boyfriend murph who's a health teacher but you guys are are are
preoccupied with the uh the myths surrounding the hymen because the first one on the list is the
cherry popping daddy's uh band and and the two of you as men are just like looking at at a cd case
and like arguing about why it's bad which leaves emily to like walk away from you guys down the
football field in a beautiful haunting shot where she just basically says without preaching that like
this is also by the way you can use this myth of the hymen there are countries where women have to
show proof of hymen to get a fucking yes food stamp or whatever the show proof of something
that doesn't exist in that form right that doesn't even food stamp i'm rift don't don't i just say
like like it's like if you if you accept something as clinical and cause and effect it can be used
to like really hurt people yeah if it's a myth it's crazy it's like the same thing as iq tests
which you also ruin which have been used extensively for racism yeah anyway so uh but that's that's
just like like please watch the show i mean it's really thank you it is not a show that wants you
to be unhappy and wants the world to be a worse place yeah i mean our our i always say the ruins
part of it is like it's a superficial joke you know it's like ruin comfort i mean yeah when you
learn something that is contrary to what you believe it's like unless it's really a backfire
effect situation it's momentarily uncomfortable you know you're like oh no let's stop ah fuck
my gears are grinding ah geez right and then uh but then as you learn and you start to embrace
the actual truth it's really fun and rewarding to learn a new thing and it because you know
that it makes you more powerful it opens the world up to you one of the reasons our show does well
is because once people learn the things they want to go tell someone else right away right like
learning case in point which is something i knew 20 years ago but i assumed it changed but then i
saw your episode and was like wait i always knew this this explains everything uh the uh your credit
card numbers they've already been stolen it the fact that it seems like every once in a while like
you're uh vulnerable to identity theft is is is based on the statistical probability of the gigantic
landfill full of everyone's credit card numbers that exists online yes that are that are sold to
among people and huge tranches of like billions of cards you're actually protected by the lack of
security about your credit card because it's like a school of fish like yeah it's like what
will what are the odds you're going to get eaten very low and the credit card companies all or the
banks more specifically all have they're just like okay well just since this is the case we'll just
cancel the card and refund the thing when it happens and we'll call you on the phone and and
you know so that's why now it's more annoying right because your your credit card what people
now have their cards canceled you know the fraud protection is too strong right um uh but uh yeah
that but i always knew that because i remember being a kid and i remember i don't know if it's
illegal for me to say this but i remember being in that phase of my life like 16 17 and like i
remember going to those sites and going like for real this these are just people's credit
card numbers yeah and i would take some and i tried some and i i got i did some stuff i i i i
whoa we're all the time on Harmontown for the second time i thought maybe it had changed in
20 years but as your as your show maybe makes a point it's like no in the 70s they used to take
your your credit card as a just literally a card that has the number on it and they would literally
just go 1754 yeah and then the thing that changed over 20 years is that now a computer does that
yeah but it's it's no more secure the only thing it eliminates is that one person overhearing your
credit card transaction we've got like you know chip and pin when you're using the register
is you're not exposing your number in the same way that you used to be but the number system
still exists right all you need is a sear you know a string of digits a shorter string of
digits and a shorter string of digits and you can use you can use someone's card right now exactly
how would a person say do that maybe you could ruin poverty pretty sure you can get online and google
i think i'd correct me if i'm wrong but i'm pretty sure the issue is
you could get online and and if you really drilled down tonight you could you could get
online and google and go like i want to become a person who trades in the credit card numbers
basically it would be the equivalent of you becoming a metal detector guy yeah you would you
would be like putting the saint you'd be putting so much effort into it you may as well write a
screenplay is that what you go down to the beach you're like hey metal detector guy write a screen
play what are you doing jesus christ haven't you seen how easy it is saw the oscars oh did the uh
by the way i thought that was a glib dumb reference i don't know if all the great movies one did the
did the favorite win anything uh best actress for libya come on i love that i thought i did
think that's so good any production awards i thought maybe i don't think it got no i think it
only got because we were worried it was going to be black panther one best productions it did
it did wonderful wardrobe costume yeah wardrobe yeah lidwick gaurdson won for this for scoring black
panther he was the community uh composer oh really uh yeah yeah that's that that that movie had a
great score for for a marvel movie he was a russo brother's discovery i can't claim credit for
like discovering him but i did i because i was the creator of community i did have the honor of
signing the special letter to the immigration board or whatever you call it where basically
it's like i'll to get a genius visa which is essentially saying yes he's going to take an
americans job but no american can do it fuck you john williams fuck you mark mother's ball you had
your chance second city toronto mark mother's boss doing fine on the devour royalties both your
parents are super smart right yeah they're both my parents are phd's yeah d scientists on the piece
of shit with a ba is this is this where you get the unraveling from uh did they teach you like
this did they talk to you about these things you know i had a lot of so i i mean i i had a
really science-filled childhood but you know i was also a super adk and i couldn't keep my head
on straight you know so they they they wrote me they didn't write me off but you know i was like
they they weren't like this kid's gonna this kid's gonna make it an academia um
but you know i i spent a lot of time watching like kids science shows and things like that which
ended up i realized only after created the show i was like oh this show is like beakman's world i
don't know if you guys remember beakman's world um but i realized afterwards i was like this is
really profoundly influenced like i zip in we do sound effects for every little thing you know are
they impressed do you ever call them do i ever call beakman's world oh no that was literally my
first one does my father beakman ever tell me he loves me uh not not yet uh yes my parents are my
parents are impressed uh yeah and do they ever get story ideas from them at all do they ever
give you a you know i got i got to tell you uh almost the opposite um my we did an episode on
science which is one i'm very proud of because i love science it's dear to my heart and it's about
systemic problems in science um with science funding and with um you know use it over use of
mouse models like they use mice for too many things and stuff like that um and i watched it with my
dad who's uh the uh an administrator at a phd and a vice president of the university oregon
and i watched it with my sister who's a phd in nuclear physics and a journalist at the wonderful
magazine science news really good outlet if you guys like learn about science and i watched it with
them and then afterwards they looked at me and they were like you really simplified a lot of
stuff in this and i was like no i don't want to hear it don't just tell me good job i was like
sitting there watching them during the episode as they were like i don't know yeah kind of painting
with broad a broad brush you know like my dad who we're talking about problems in science funding
and the nsf and and you know corporate and and billionaire funding a science and the problem
with that my dad worked at the nsf and gave grants and he was like no no no it's a good system i was
like you're here's the thing when people are uh when people are so close to something it's nothing
i hear a lot is uh oh adam ruins everything is a great show until he does something that you know
about right and like yeah i'm sorry that in six minutes we didn't manage to like the standards
of your like fucking phd right damn it people get so excited that's one of the biggest problems
with the internet is people get so fucking excited yeah when the ocean of everyone dwelling together
accidentally runs over a single god damn thing about that that's important to them it's like
it's a that's just be excited about that don't get mad about it yeah i'm talking about you
mentioned the pixies oh fuck i saw the last picture they think it's so fun they're like oh my god i
finally i'm the person here i mean we did this thing on on mouse models which is that you know
mice are mice and rats are overused in medical testing and science and the reason is because
the models are very it's very easy to get the mice it's cost effective and it's replicable you can
do it over and over again and it's like easy get funding to do that right there are problems with
it my dad told me about that with my dad's not a scientist sure he told me what he said you know those
those rats are bred for cancer that's what that's the thing that people say what do you mean it's
like well they're the the the rats are now easier to give cancer because all they get is cancer
yeah i just remember that from what i was like eight that's kind of broadly true i mean it's like
there's such a there's such specific populations right because they're trying to reduce the number
of variables right when they're when they're testing but as a result their findings then become
like really really narrow and just you know we talked to a fucking cancer scientist who says
hey we shouldn't be using mice quite this much right it's a systemic problem in science and on
you know reddit we got so many people saying i am a scientist who uses mice and he doesn't know
anything about mice and i use mice very well you know and the thing is from their vantage point where
they are at their particular post grad program at the university of whatever doing their work
like they have such a specific their whole lives are their little corner of it you know
like sort of writ large and i'm talking about i'm doing an overview for a general population
of the field from 10 000 feet up right and so like those even though we're talking about the
same thing our perspectives are so different that like they can't you know they can't quite go to
they can't quite go together you know and they have that strong reaction of an episode i'm going
back to your parents thing is there a version of an episode where you ruin the child-parent
relationship where but which is to say on both sides both sides uh because sometimes i feel
at 46 like i look back on a lifetime of kind of like um uh symbolizing them i like oh my mom said
this my dad said that and i just told that story about my dad saying that it's like i it's so easy
to want them to be wrong and all this stuff and like i guess i'm fascinated by this kind of like
Schrab used to tell me this story uh Schrab's gonna grow up to be a god knows what he hasn't grown up
yet no Schrab Schrab Schrab Schrab grows up to be a comic book artist right so Schrab has these stories
like when we're like 20 and we're hanging out and Schrab remembers being a kid and your mom hid
your comic books and you know she was she didn't have i had a comic book ranzor ox and it had uh on
the and it had some racies it was kind of like a heavy metal kind of a sci-fi book and there was
like some naked nudity in there hell yeah that's kind i guess i've got to i guess to skip ahead of
it i'm wondering like do we when we i always because i also watch these true crime things and
like people are so fast and they go like oh ted bundy uh ted bundy's parents were like this i'm
like according to who fucking ted bundy we should the fuck do you trust him for you say i want to
bundy uh are you comparing me to ted bundy yes yes i am what the fuck i think i think if you had
slightly less of a support system uh no what i'm saying is do we as adults like i i wonder what
field of psychology like like like studies is like the idea of like like i i picture it like a like
a boat's wake like like to what extent i know it's like nature versus nurture is a thing but i'm
saying like like people like we we tend to interview people about their childhoods we go like oh hey so
and so what do you remember about your childhood well my mom was always very encouraging about the
alphabet oh really that's weird because your life ended up being about the fucking alphabet you
alphabet scientist but like like guess what you were raised from your brain your mom like washing
your dick too hard in the bathtub we don't know like how do we know whether washing your dick
really hard makes you into the alphabet like we're gonna lose that stuff because we have this like
fixation of this idea of the truth like this this biographical truth like why didn't you become a
dick washing scientist who studies dick washing we think that's how it is but like have you have
you touched on any area that we haven't done we haven't done parenting we have you done that episode
well there's a lot there um there's a lot to unpack there's a lot to unpack uh we you know we've
never done parenting specifically because we've done we've tracked Emily and Murph throughout
the stages of life so they get engaged and we did an episode about their engagement we did an
episode of adam ruins weddings we did an episode about having a baby right and then we decided at
the end we sort of had a very soft you know our message to the end of that was like hey you don't
have to have a kid right that was sort of trying to take that shame off that pressure off of people
it's not your chance to make the world a better place yeah to have a kid you mean yeah right
yeah i i mean that's uh yeah that's that's certainly my my perspective is that like i don't
think there's a moral imperative to have children personally um and and uh if people want to have
them great but i don't think it's like a thing that we we have to do right um uh so at the end we
have Emily and Murph decide to wait and so they don't have kids and so but maybe maybe one day
you know god willing uh if we keep going we'll we'll do that episode but uh yeah i don't know i
feel like the the amount of like the fucking butterfly effect of parenting is so vast that i
feel like almost the worst part about it as a parent i can't imagine having to live with that
because you feel like oh everything i do is going to be like that fucking simpson's episode where
like you know suddenly suddenly they turn into some kind of weird monster because i do x y z but
it's completely unpredictable and you actually have almost no control over it at all like all the
things that you know i talk to my therapist about about you know my my parents doing x y or z none
of it's none of it's you know particularly bad but the things that did affect me are things that i
know that that they never even thought about or that they they were just tiny little quirks of
their personality that were just you know like a little bit too harsh about this or a little bit
too loose about that or more importantly and this is the thing that plagues me is don't you think
it's possible that there's moments where they're like by the way all that other shit that you're
gonna remember um that's all boy i'm so sorry i came off that way earlier today adam you gotta
remember it's so important that mice mice are overused and or whatever the thing is whatever
and and that and that it just didn't serve your uh your your your adult brain your developing
brains it's like you create this like rocket thrust behind you you go why am i who i am
and the memories that don't serve that narrative they just oh yeah like like like like oh old man
withers down the street was racist and that's why i'm not and i decided that and so i forgot
that old man withers uh yeah saved the space lab from i'm not gonna riff a narrative that's
i'm already halfway into one i might as well complete it he saved space lab
with his racism i don't know uh yeah well that doesn't that's in that case old man withers
was still racist i don't know why i yeah there's this there's this conflict because i i believe
what is going on back there can't you guys just is it on a loop or something what's going on
i believe that every time it happens everyone feels like they have to react the weird i would
just put it on like a like a video of a badger robbing or something like a fast motion video
used to something i'm curious i'm i'm actually curious what you'll say to this because one of
my beliefs um and i've read your writing on on story structure and stuff and and i i love it
but one one of the things that i believe is that uh you know real life is not story shaped that
people's lives are not actually stories and that and that that's something that we impose onto them
and that the real and that we actually have an upcoming episode our season finale is going to
be about exactly this problem because on our show we use stories to in the way that i describe to
to give people information but in reality uh the real world is not story shaped right like we tell
our our three beat story about teddy roosevelt's life but teddy roosevelt did not have a story
like that to his life that's something i imposed on it right um and so the in to the extent that
we're using those stories we get we get further from the truth and i think we do that for our own
lives as well um but at the same time human life and human society definitely not story shaped
because it's sloppadoodle because it but the only things that are story shaped are like
the day because the sun comes up and goes down so you can always rely on that and like the seasons
and life and death and the kind of like general nature of how this two shall pass like um you're
mad at this person today maybe you're mad at them because you love them you're going to find that
out later like those kind of like those things that aren't uh um pollutable by the fact that
everyone else is going through them all at the same time that creates static and that but the
individual signals i think if you were to the extent that it's possible to have an individual
have a relationship with the universe i think that the story structure holds true i think the
nature boom well i have to say boom okay take that out but i do i i do know exactly what you're
talking about because then what we have to do is function together and then so then we go oh
teddy roosevelt you know lesson you learn there mm don't dig a canal unless you want malaria
and then someone else is like well actually and we're like you're actually me and my story is
about crossing the threshold of learning what actuallying is and everyone's right and everyone's
wrong because it's like yeah it's like all signals that just create static but your heart is beating
every beat a muscle like go crosses it is a four act story right it's a four chambered heart
but i i am my my my believe i i agree with that except that i believe that's like a structure
that's a structure that we impose right that's a structure like i believe the story is a structure
of the mind out of the universe right if humanity was wiped out nobody would care there would be
nobody to care about anything there would be no you know sort of like the sun would be revolving
but there'd be no vantage point from which it would rise and set right um there would be no
one to observe it right yeah this is absolutely about the experience of being sentient yeah and
so that's what i bump into because i'm really i'm my what i'm uh most interested in is understanding
the the universe as it truly is right this is fucking i'm just getting gonna just nose dive
into cont here but like i uh what i'm really interested in understanding the world as it
truly is and to the extent that i uh am imposing my own structure on it that's an extent to which
i don't truly understand it as it is uh and and it seems like the story is like such a deep
piece of how we think deep like characteristic of how we think that we can't escape it even
as it distorts the world that we're trying to observe yeah i mean jeez there was there is
that idea that the only footage that is real documentary footage is surveillance footage
because those people are unaffected because the camera is not in plain view
but the camp yeah i mean and then but what about but what about actually but like the camera was
mounted uh in suspicion it was mounted by macy's because macy's didn't want their parking lot
robbed it was a choice made by everything that the human sentience touches it creates a perspective
and a flavor i i think if you there's a way to look at that to to to to defeat yourself and go
oh so all i am is a is a conscious monkey that's just like projecting an illusion onto a chaotic
universe you know monkey but can't you just flip that and go well flip the telescope look through
the big end and into the monkey and go um uh monkey is tiny hey yes he is very tiny and and the
universe's point is that monkey for the time being according to that monkey and then and that's what
the monkey needs to know to actually understand the universe because as far as our monkey's
relationship with the universe the only thing that's going to possibly benefit the monkey
is through that telescope even though it's absolutely a fraudulent telescope because the
the monkey understanding what the milky way thinks won't help the monkey and the milk and what
they won't it it it it's like uh yeah i don't know i'm scared i'm scared you're scaring me i'm
so i'm like panicking i'm like flailing and going like look listen adam all we have to do is make
good television than die i agree i agree with that i agree with that statement as well i accept
that buying a tesla didn't help the earth uh this is as much quarter as i give you
i mean i i i agree with that last statement all you have to do is make good television than die i
mean when i make my show i'm like try this that's me trying to work that shit out you know like
well our our season finale this year is literally us like grappling with those issues right and the
issues of like is the structure of our show make our show less true oh my god i mean this is my new
favorite show i'm gonna like watch it thank you oh my gosh because it's that's it's fucking meta in
the best way thank you um you should you should ruin the word meta it's a it's a greek prefix it
means nothing it means beyond the it shores up the fourth wall it makes you identify with characters
do do all kinds of stuff like that you also have an offshoot that's like an animated thing where
you just investigate history we did uh we did animated episodes yeah uh that were called reanimated
history and they were and they were specifically uh it was that the network wanted uh more episodes
in less time and they were like you and they're like you shoot all year what if we do animated
episodes and i said uh maybe and they said great yes and then we did them and they came out quite
well um but uh yeah they're uh um is like we ended up creating an entirely different format for them
where it's me interacting uh with a narrator i heard chris pernell's voice he is chris pernell
is the voice of it which was incredible to to have so if you if you're going through rick and
warty withdrawals you can you can listen to jerry narrate history or animated adam ruins it for
him yeah i really recommend this show like i it's kind of it's one of those things where it's like
easy to recommend because just watch ten minutes of it you're gonna it's like a grape or a crack
rock like your your inner you're out you will sell all of your shit and lose your teeth over this
show oh man grapes grapes will get you that's what that's what grapes do to me oh man i am well
like i i think this is my most important question it was like it was sort of like hinted at in the
beginning and i purposely avoided it but like so do you believe in humanity do you think we have a
chance and we've only got two minutes in the broadest in the broadest sense in the broadest
sense um uh uh in the broad in the broadest sense drop what am i what do you think my job is here
i got to ask that you know i got to ask i got to sleep tonight what are you what are you doing
well well so he's flattering you he's saying whatever you say is going to affect him
by a big well let me let me so a thought i have sometimes is that let's see if i can do a a
pessimist and an optimist version uh the a thought that i have sometimes is that the the the amount
of time that we have been on earth in our current form right like the the modern world right is is
so short right our population has gone up by i i don't know i forget when the earth had a hundred
had i had one billion people on it as opposed to seven but it was less than two hundred years
ago right and so the amount of explosion is massive and if you saw any population of any
creature expand that much in that short of a time you'd be like yeah this might not end well right
like giraffes going from one billion to seven billion giraffes yeah exactly fuck it up at four
billion giraffes easy and exactly they'd be like well i invented a new kind of tree that's artificially
tall because you gotta justify the next they can't you sorry i mean derail you no no no that's exactly
my that's exactly my example i'm often stricken by that it just feels like it's almost like where
the pat would like where complete absolute cynicism and optimism meet where it's like
there's eight billion of us we're horrible people like yeah like like when those lights went out in
new york like decades ago it was like everybody was like oh there she goes there goes new york
and then the lights came on the next morning they're like we ate all the ice cream before it melted
i was in new york during a blackout and it was it was kind of nice i like like like so few
like we're not we're not as bad as but at the at the same time at the same time okay so that's
like the worst that's like the worst vision of humanity right and and in that vision we're like
we're almost like a bacterial infection that found too much like substrate that would allow
it to grow right like we're growing at this rapid pace in this unsustainable way and the crash is
a common right and that's how i feel sometimes then i feel other times that i think the the humanist
world view doesn't get enough credit sometimes for how beautiful it is because i feel like
atheists who people want to call themselves atheists don't don't give this view often enough
um uh because uh you know we if you if you're looking at the world in those terms right that
we live in a natural world where you know things are happened because of chemical reactions and
that life is essentially a complex chemical reaction right humanity is a chemical reaction
that's so complex that not only it it actually escaped the bounds of biological evolution and
began a process of cultural evolution where um you know the the rate at which we're growing and the
rate at which we're changing the amount the rate at which our species has changed is orders of
magnitude faster than any species that has ever changed before right because we've created this
process of cultural evolution where things are happening in our minds right and through language
memetic evolution yeah that is like taken over yeah that is like incredibly rapid and that's
something that to our knowledge has never happened anywhere in you know ever right and that makes
us the most like undoubtedly the most remarkable thing to ever happen in the entire universe
certainly as far as we've seen yeah yeah i mean like it's it's um it's unbelievable that and and
it again it's just it's just chemical reactions like building upon each other complexity creating
more complexity creating more complexity creating more complexity um and so that is the mere fact
of our existence is the most beautiful truth in the natural world um and as a result it kind of
maybe i mean it i was going to say it doesn't matter what we do it does because we still need to
behave ethically towards each other and try to improve the world that we're in but um the fact
of our existence is so marvelous that it's uh uh difficult to even comprehend i uh that's my positive
feel i yeah i i just spoke to elan musk about this you're welcome uh we were just having the
same conversation and he touched on this thing that i was like like like a canadian cartoonist
my friend steven notley who can you hear on the podcast he introduced to me a million years ago
which was this idea of information as a field or i.e. an organism in its own right um although it
doesn't mean our definitions of living but it does mean our definitions of like wants to be
and that information as a field uh it it goes it's like if you look at just us as a sort of
of patsy i guess you'd call it that that molecular you know molecular bumpage leads to cosmic RNA
leads to life leads to competition between giraffes and beavers leads to us having eyebrows
and having podcasts and what the whole point of it is that we invented hard drives because
we've got our cells are bursting with information are the reason we have these chromosomes are just
like so tightly wound it's like comical it's like how can you have information that way
and the answer is we barely can whenever you fuck and like the the the shuffle has to happen the
ballet of information having to unwind and then rewind in your baby's cells it's like
it's gotten to a point where it's like enough is enough coincidentally right at the time when
we're also smart enough to make new ways for information to to to go on and my big fear was
always and look i'm i'm just gonna say elan shared it so new share he made your he made
your solar panels in your cars and like you know but i like where i was like i said well like
we're just like these like what we're experiencing right now could be intersected with like the kind
of it's it's like like we could be coming to a point where everyone who's an atheist and
everyone who's like a fundamentalist could actually both agree that it's over but
the the the atheists are agreeing because it's like well our species was never anything more
than basically like a a boot drive like a like a like a weird kind of like intermediary like oh
what do i got to work with uh so i was like like time bandit to get the assistant to the guy that's
like like trying to devise a universe and like you have hydrogen you have you know you have
these like certain amount of atoms like all right well arrange them in a way that makes them when
they bump into each other want to make more of the things that bumped into each other and it's
like like and just give it a trillion gazillion years until it gets to a point where okay finally
we got like plants and furry things like crawling around and they all want to like now they've got
the agenda driven that's like it's on autopilot so if you're a god at this point you've walked away
a long time ago but uh you're growing basil in your flower box and that's like going but it's like
like like like because all it's doing is just going like look i got one every every living thing
is just going i gotta beat every other living thing i gotta fuck more i gotta i and and but
all of it is like bent towards this apex where you and i are like oh i i need to know how to make
eyeglasses and this microchip and this thing and this alphabet and that we have gotten finally
right to the point where what we're experiencing is an actual spiritual abandonment of our original
quest sorry that i said this that the no no no he didn't i don't i don't want to throw him under
the bus because i i i know this is me projecting on a shit i don't want to i don't i don't want to
miscredit anybody what do you know what my fear is that we are as primates we are at the event horizon
and of of biologically going okay what's next and but the information is going like nothing's
next for you you fucking foot man you fucking skycap piece here's your five bucks it's for
it's a actually a coupon from where we're going like you can't even spend it and we're like oh
oh that that that is violence that is nihilism like that that we're we that we have a we were
at a crossroads where we could actually i my theory is if we could actually just recalibrate
for a second and realize that we are direct descendants of chimpanzees and that by their
standards we are gods and just stop like could we have a conversation with a chimpanzee tonight
and they would go what's wrong and we would go well we got well not a lot to do and whoa slow
down jack i can't even talk how many spotted leopards are hunting you and we'd be like well
spotted leopard of nuclear annihilation it's like whoa hey you made that up down the
eventually the conversation would end with the chimpanzee going you're crazy i'm gonna go have
an orgy because i learned to fuck and i'm gonna go extinct because of you not because of me
not because fucking's wrong and not because gruman's wrong and not because and and we could just
realize like we we we've eliminated the spotted leopard yeah the wolves are fetching our slippers
we control the weather um if it rains we don't have to give a shit we don't control the weather
we affect it we affect the weather we do not control it but according to a chimpanzee yeah
yeah we do because a chimpanzee can't just go indoors we invent it indoors we do control
chimpanzee's definition of weather we can change it from raining to not raining by stepping to
the left three feet chimpanzees could only do that to a certain degree i what what i'd say to that
is that you're always bragging about how you better than chimpanzee i think it's time i think i
think we got that look i think it's that's gonna be my movement just compare yourself to a chimpanzee
you're rich you're happy what i what i'd uh what i'd say to that and what i'd say to elon musk if
you was uh sitting here um is uh there's there's like this concern there's like this concern that
we are uh that the bad thing is something we're gonna do you know like we're worried about uh
you know we're worried about building AI or worried about like building the next level or you
know what i mean um and i'm concerned about the things that we're doing right now right um that
like we're uh you know we're actively we're destabilizing like weather systems and climate
systems right now you know and that uh we're we're currently building you know a lot of people are
like afraid like oh the AI is gonna take over you know um and it's like gonna come to consciousness
it's gonna skynet us you know um but the the i there's this writer james bridal who wrote a book
called new dark age and it's all about how we're building these systems that uh they're not AI they're
not like hard AI that's like you know trying to kill us or whatever they're just systems that we've
built that we don't understand right um that like the youtube algorithm like the u2 youtube algorithm
is currently giving people uh you know misinformation uh conspiracy theories uh hateful shit right
that's what's like being bred on youtube and nobody knows why right because we don't understand the
youtube algorithm and the youtube people were just trying to get people to click more right that's
all that's that's all that they were doing right um and so like that is the current you know that's
the problem of technology that that you know i would wish we were focusing on rather than the
rather than the skynet problem you know i mean um like we have so much that uh we are like fucking up
currently on a daily basis just in how we treat each other on a basic level i guess if i were a
doomsday person i would say in argument but your point is better i but i but i if i was arguing i
would say well no that's the point of worrying about the future is that you you do backwards
math to what you need to do today so you go these computers gonna take our jobs and then you now you
know today you need to take a ball peen hammer and you just smash a computer like at least that's
something to do and i i'm kind of advocating for the chimpanzee model because i'm like yeah today
we could just look at a chimp before they're extinct and go what do you think and their unspoken
answer would be you guys are nailing it you have nailed it you need to stop nailing stop making
more sure you are i understand um the alarm instinct has made you guys like like very successful
but you are alarmed by each other now which makes no sense you're alarmed by nothing you're alarmed
by silence you're alarmed by happiness yeah you're uh and the the the uh yeah but anyways um i uh
how do we end the show brandy we do it like this we say uh one of the greatest gifts that we got
left us this past weekend and it is oh jeez brody incredibly sad for all of us but uh incredibly
happy that we got a chance to know him and if you got a chance to see him uh you you would have seen
why we all loved him so much his name is brody and uh he did warm up for community as well for you
but for the most of us in this city he was you you go to a chinese restaurant and you you see the
buffet of pork and delicious settings out front but you look over the table and you see the family
and they're eating something that is good for them and delicious and has no salt and that was
fucking brody to comedians he was that special dish that you only made in the kitchen for you
and your family and you sat around and you enjoyed and everybody else got this incredible product
but what we got in LA is brody so if you got a chance to see him you know what i'm talking about
if you didn't please just look up brody stevens um a lot of cops out there but yeah he's just uh
and check out his work and we we will miss him forever uh he was one of the best that ever did it
here here
yeah losing too many people yeah it's been a really bad it's been a really bad couple months yeah
i mean i saw i saw an episode called adam ruins death and i didn't know i was like if he ruins
death am i how is that gonna work i didn't click on it but uh yeah that that that episode's about
the uh the stark inevitability of death uh all right yeah yeah don't need it but yeah i mean not
not this weekend but you know another one maybe uh Schrab you get anything to plug don't you have a
book coming out no about being a fucking piece of shit what are you fucking talking about without
a book do i have a book coming out called i don't have a book you fucking bookless fuck
this guy's fucking bookless what how'd that chair worker for you i like it comfortable you like it i
like it a lot i don't know the best thing on stage Schrab Schrab hey rob can i pay you a specific
compliment because because you're i used to watch your work on channel 101 so much and that influenced
so much of our shows and my work's visual style and like the the visual effects and the and the
special effects you did and the idea that hey you can do any effect with you sell it with you
know no met with cardboard and like after effects you know what i mean i was the after effects guy
in my college sketch group um and so i just want to uh say that like twiggers holiday i watch that
over and over and over again oh thank you adam doesn't ruin everything at all i would still say
you could you could watch episodes i could find episodes adam ruins everything where i'm like
oh yeah that's probably something that i stole from Schrab years ago so hey thank you adam before
you go maybe we'll end on this super up note what what charity did you like that you ran across
shooting what oh that's oh what a wonderful question because we have a running charity thing
that's right that's right we have a little bit of like half committed to a good charity real quick
yeah um uh we uh there are a couple things oh man okay so uh we uh had for our first year we had
this incredible dude chris fabricant come on he's the head lawyer for the or the head of litigation
for the for the innocence project love the innocence this guy flies around the country
getting people off the death row um and i'm proud to you know i'm sort of working with them a little
bit i'm an ambassador which means sometimes they email me and ask me to tweet something and i always
do um uh they're incredible um and they're really working to actively do you know strategic litigate
civil rights litigation to change the criminal justice system they get people off death row
which is yeah they get people off a death row and they're trying to change they're trying to set
precedence they're trying to do third good martial shit you know um uh and then uh for homelessness
which is a really uh such a huge issue in la uh there are these incredible organizations that are
housing first homeless uh organizations that just try to get people in homes directly there's an
amazing one called housing works california housing works california housing works california is
amazing not housing works period housing works it's housing works california you have to know
specifically because we know how it works uh yeah as it does work uh and they they put people they
go find the folks who are most in danger of dying on the street and they put them in a permanent
supportive home i've been to the facilities that they that they had they're just wonderful apartments
the people living in them you know when you meet them you're like this is someone who would have
died on the street now they're living somewhere safe and warm and what's the name of that one i'm
sorry housing works california and so that's a direct donation thing where it's like your money
turns into money that like results in that uh no that's no this is uh uh no well how well i would
love something to turn money into money how's that what is that no no no not turning into money
like it's multiplying like i'm i'm rich i help homeless people no the the the you the phrase
that you from your giving episode oh yeah where we're adam ruined giving yes you as far as like
you're you're talking about a charity that you give them money and they can do the most with that
money yes if you yes i'm sorry yeah if you give a charity money uh that's better than donating
in kind goods like canned goods and things like that because the charity is able to use the kind
of so what's the name of the one that in los angeles like pulls the people that are about to
die off the street that is that is housing works california housing works okay and they're they
they do really amazing work and the most important thing you can do if you care about that kind of
thing is go to your local neighborhood council meetings and when someone proposes building
a shelter say yes please and then yell at the people who are arguing against it that's where
they really need support so but also they will get someone off the streets i asked them they said
for every five thousand dollars donated which is a lot but they can put take someone that's how
much it costs them to take someone off the street and put them in a permanent home so if you want
to put a dollar you know if you can donate a hundred bucks and say hey i got him a fiftieth
of the way there or whatever for how long the five thousand dollars like a night no no no no that's
for that's for that's how much you charge that's for the rest of their lives that that's how much
to get them in a home they can stand indefinitely really definitely yeah jesus i mean some dinners
depending on whose birthday it is some dinners can cost five thousand dollars yeah yeah that's true
in the last 20 years i can tell some stories all right we'll have to save those for the next
time and time ladies and gentlemen thank you so much to adam kahn over thank you folks Dan Harmon
Rob Schrab Kris Boruff Zac McKeever sarah hill nullan fabrikas the lovely dynasty theater but
most of all to all of you for showing up we miss you jeff davis we miss you Spencer Crittenden good night
did you get any of that